---
layout: page
title: Collaborations
subtitle: List of all my collaborative works
---

# Genetic mutations in DLBCL
I work with Drs. Randy Gascoyne’s and Sohrab Shrab’s group from the BC Cancer Agency on a genetic study of Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). In this work, we identify genetic alterations driving two distinct cell-of-origin (COO) subtype-specific tumor growth, providing a deeper understanding of DLBCL pathogenesis. In particular, I proposed an extension of the Cox-LASSO model to build a prognostic genetic signature of time to cancer progression beyond the signal that correlates with COO. The resulting genetic score improves the prediction of survival compared to the prediction based on COO alone. Derek Chiu worked under my supervision in this project and summarized the methodologies we developed in his MSc project. A manuscript summarizing the results of this collaboration is under review at *Nature Communications* (invited to revise and resubmit) ***[REF]***.

# Proteomics and genomics in allergic asthma
I have a solid collaboration with Dr. Scott Tebbutt on the analysis of genomics and proteomics data from patients with allergic asthma. I was an active member of Amrit Singh’s supervisory committee (former student in Tebbutt’s lab) and supervised all the statistical work in Amrit’s PhD thesis. Through this collaboration we have built a comprehensive analytical pipeline to identify and validate molecular markers of different asthmatic phenotypes in order to characterize the molecular mechanisms related to allergic asthma ***[REF]***. I am currently supervising the statistical work of Yolanda Yang, another student from this group, to identify blood-based biomarkers of different types of allergic asthma to improve their current diagnosis and treatments.

# Proteomics in multiple sclerosis
I have collaborated with Dr. Helen Tremlett's group working on a proteomics study of Multiple Sclerosis. In my role of principal investigator, I led this collaboration, to design and supervise the proteomics experiment, to direct and supervise the statistical analysis conducted by one of my students, Darlene LY Dai. Using advanced technological methods and an elastic net model, we identified and built a score based on a panel of 11 proteins to classify samples from MS patients into two extreme MS phenotypic groups (benign and aggressive cases of MS) with high estimated sensitivity and specificity ***[REF]***. Our study was one of the first ones to explore the joint association of multiple proteins with MS disease progression serum samples.  

# Proteomics in cardiovascular diseases
I continue collaborating with Drs. Bruce McManus and Christoph Borchers on various proteomic biomarkers studies of heart failure and cardiovascular diseases. We conducted rigorous statistical analyses based on regularized linear models and classifiers that identified promising panels of proteins ***[REF REF]***. If externally validated, these markers will lead to the development of inexpensive protein-based blood tests that could be used by physicians to monitor response to therapies, resulting in more personalized patient management. I am currently leading and supervising the work of Darlene Dai and Ash Anwar, who are writing a manuscript on one of the studies with this group ***[REF]***.

# Proteomics in Transplantation
Since 2005, I have been working in the realm of molecular biomarker discoveries in Transplantation through my participation in the Genome Canada-funded Biomarkers in Transplantation initiative and with the NCE CECR Prevention of Organ Failure (PROOF) Centre of Excellence. Our first proteomic biomarker discovery of acute renal allograft rejection, published in Molecular and Cellular Proteomics (top Journal in Proteomics), has been cited by experts in the field (64 citations in Google Scholar). In more recent collaborations with the group, I have developed a computational proteomic pipeline founded on the combination of advanced statistical methodologies to identify, validate, and clinically implement biomarker blood-based solutions to diagnose and predict various diseases ***[REF]***. We demonstrated the utility of the proposed methodologies in various biomarkers studies of cardiac transplantation [REF, REF]. The computational methodologies proposed in this pipeline provide a reference to a wide range of biomarker proteomic studies.

# -omics technologies
Another important part of my research related with these collaborations has been focused on understanding the design of the experiments, the different sources of variation associated with the technologies used to generate the data, and the quality of the data. My first contribution in this area was the development of a novel method based on fundamental concepts of robustness to assess the quality of large-scale microarray datasets. The proposed methodology is published in Bioinformatics (top-tier Journal in Bioinformatics) and has been cited 29 times (Google Scholar) in top journals in the field ***[REF]***. Through more recent collaborations, I have been invited by Dr. Borchers to write an article on the characterization of targeted Multiple Reaction Monitoring (MRM) assays ***[REF]***, and to contribute with the design and study of an MRM-MS assay to quantitate putative protein markers of cardiovascular diseases ***[REF]*** (119 citations in Google Scholar). I am currently leading the development and study of an algorithm, called Protein Group Code Algorithm (PGCA), to link groups of identified proteins (instead of single proteins) across multiple experimental runs. The proposed algorithm addresses an unsolved challenge resulting from the protein inference problem in mass spectrometry data ***[REF]*** (invited to revise and resubmit in PLoS ONE).
